---
title: Homework 5
geometry: margin=2cm
author: Nishant Rodrigues
---

\newcommand \leQ {\le_Q}
\newcommand \union {\cup}
\newcommand \satisfies{\vDash}
\newcommand \N {\mathbb N}
\newcommand \Z {\mathbb Z}
\newcommand \ElDiag {\text {ElDiag}}

1.  a.  $T$ is finititely axiomatizable iff $\langle T \rangle$ is a
        clopen subset of $T_\sigma$

        Since $T$ is finitely axiomatizable, it can be "rephrased" as
        the conjunction of each of it's axioms, and so is part of the
        basis of the topology:
        $\langle T\rangle = \langle \land_{\phi \in T}\phi \rangle$, which
        is clopen.

        If it is not clopen, then it cannot be the a finite intersection
        of any set of axioms, and so cannot be finitely axiomatizable.

    b.  Since $\langle T \rangle$ is the intersection of a (possibly
        infinite) clopen sets. It's complement must be the unions of the
        complements of those sets. i.e.
        $T^c = \union \{ \langle \lnot \phi \rangle : \phi \in T \}$.
        But, since in the previous homework we proved that this is
        compact, $T^c$ has a finite subcover. Taking the complement of
        that subcover gives us a finite set of $\langle \phi \rangle$
        that is equal to $\langle T \rangle$.

2.  a.  A graph is bipartate iff it does not contain an odd cycle:

        $$T = \{ \forall x_1, \forall x_2, \ldots, \forall x_i, \lnot (  x_1 E x_2 \land x_2 E x_3 \land \cdots \land x_{i-1} E x_i  \land x_1 E x_i)  : \forall n \in \N, i = 2 n + 1 \}$$

        axiomatizes this.

    b.  Suppose that bipartate graphs were finitely axiomatizable, then
        (by 1 b) the above axiomatization must contain a finite
        axiomatization. However, for any subset of the above
        axiomatization, finite axiomatization, there is a highest $n$
        for which the finite axioms dissallow $2n + 1$ cycles.

3.  Take $\ElDiag(G)$ and extend it's signature with an additional unary
    function $m$, add the axioms
    $\forall x, y, m(x) = y \implies m(y) = x$ and
    $\forall x, y, m(x) = y \implies x E y$.

    This function $m$ along with the axioms encodes the existance of a
    perfect matching: Let $M$ be a relation on the vertices of $G$ and
    $x M y :\iff m(x) = y$. $M$ is a subset of $E$, by the second axiom
    . Since $m$ is  a function, each vertex is mathed with exactly one other
    vertex. Finally, since $m$ is it's own inverse, multiple edges can't be
    incedent on a vertex.
 
    Let $T_0$ be a finite subset of $T$. It mentions only a finite number of 
    constants (vertices). Since the vertices corresponding to thos constant
    are contained in a finite subgraph, such that admits perfect matching
    it is satisfyable.
    
    By Compactness, the entire subgraph admits a perfect matching.
   
4.  a.  A cyclic group is generated by exactly one element. It is
        generated by countable applications of the `+` function. Thus
        models must have at most countable elements (and all infinite
        cyclic groups are isomorphic to $\Z$). But this contradicts the
        Upward Lowenheim-Skolem theorem.

    b.  Torsion groups: All elements are of finite order.
    
        Suppose that there is an axiomatization $G$, of torsion groups.
        Add a new constant $c$ to $\sigma_{gp}$. 
        
        Let $T_{0} = G$.       
            $T_1   = G \union \{ \lnot c + c = 0\}$
            $T_2   = G \union \{ \lnot c + c + c = 0\}$
            $T_n   = G \union \{ \lnot c + c + \cdots + c = 0\}$

        That is, for each $n$, add the statement, "$c$ does not have order $n$".
        Let $T_\infty = \union_{n\in \N} T_n$. 
        This is clearly finitely satisfyable, by the cyclic group of order $n + 1$
        for some $n$ where $S \subset T_n$. 

        By compactness, $T_\infty$ must be satisfyable. But, in $T_\infty$, $c$
        cannot have a finite order. This is a contradiction and the axiomatization $G$ cannot exist.

    c.  Connected Graphs:
    
        Suppose that there is an axiomatization, $C$, of connected graphs.
        Then, add two new constants, $c_1, c_2$ to the signature.

        Let $T_{-1} = C$. 
            $T_0 = T_{-1} \union \{ \lnot c_1 E c_2 \}$
            $T_1 = T_0    \union \{ \lnot ( \exists m_1, c_1 E m_1 \land m_1 E c_2 ) \}$
            $T_n = T_{n-1}\union \{ \lnot ( \exists m_1\cdots m_n \land c_1 E m_1 \land m_1 E m_2 \land \ldots \land m_{n-1} E m_n \land m_n E c_2 ) \}$
            
        Let $T_\infty = \union_{n \in \N} T_n$.

        This theory is clearly finitely saticfyable  (Graphs containing a line, of path length at least $n$ model all subsets of $T_n$)
        and so by compactness, this must be satisfyable.

        But, this requires that the interpretation of $c_1$ and $c_2$ do not have a finite length path between them. 
        That is, the graphs must be disconnected. This is a contradiction, and thus no such $C$ can exist.

5.  a.  Homomorphisms must take constants to constants, so
        $f(0^N) = 0^M$ For all $n \in \N$, if $f(n) = (s^M)^n(0^M)$,
        then $f(s^N(n)) = f(n+1) = s^M(f(n)) = (s^M)^{n+1}(0^M)$. Thus,
        by induction, $f(n)$ is fixed for all $n \in \N$, and the
        homomorphism $f: N \to M$ is unique. It is one to one, since for
        every $(s^M)^n(0^M)$, there is a unique,
        $n\in \N, f(n) = (s^M)^n(0^M)$.

        Let $N'= f(\N)$. Then $N' \subset M$ is the universe of a
        substructure **N'** $\subset$ **M**. Since $f|_{N'}$ is
        one-to-one and surjective, it is an isomorphism, and
        $f: N \to M$ is $\sigma-$embedding.

    b.  Let $\phi(x)$ be a statement defining $\N^M$. Then
        $M \satisfies \phi(0)$ Suppose $M \satisfies \phi(n)$ it holds
        for $n$, then $n \in \N^M$, and so is $s^M(n)$, so
        $\N^M\satisfies \phi(s^M(n))$ . By applying the indeuction axiom,
        $M \satisfies \forall x \phi(x)$. But then, $\phi$ does not
        define $\N^M$.

    c.  Suppose that there is a formula that is true for an infinite
        number of $n \in \N$. Then, for all $n \in \N$, the statement
        $M\satisfies\exists m, \phi(m, \vec a) \land m > n$ where
        $m > n$ is short hand for $\exists a, n + s(a) = m$. Since no
        number $n \in \N$ is greater than any infinite (non-standard)
        number, this statement defines $\N^M$ But this contradics 5 (b).

6.  Let **N** be the standard model of PA. Let **M** be a non-standard
    model. There can be no such isomorphism from **M** to **N** any such
    isomorphism must take **N** to itself.
    
    XXX: Is is a elementary substructure?

7.  Note: We assume the axioms for abelian groups for $(M, +)$, since
    they can be proved inductively from PA.

    a.  If that relation was definable in **M** then, we'dbe able to 
        define $\N \subset M$ as $\phi(n) := n ~ 0$.
    b.  Let $[a] \leQ [b]$, and $a' \in [a]$.
    
        Since $[a]\leQ [b]$, $a + c = b, c \in M \setminus \N$.
        Assume WLOG, $a' = a + n, n  \in \N$, then $a' + c = a + n + c = b + n$
        But $b + n \in [b] \implies [a'] \leQ [b]$
        
        We can show this for $a' + n = a$, and for any $b' \in [b]$ too.
        
        So $\leQ$ is well defined.

        * Antisymmetric: Fix some $[a], [b]$, suppose for some $c, d \in M$,
          $a = b + c$ and $b = a +d$. Then $a + b = a + b + c + d \implies c + d = 0$ 
          Since $c + d = 0$, both $c$ and $d$ must be $0$, $a = b$.

        * Transitive: If $[a] \leQ [b]$ and $[b] \leQ [c]$, then 
          there is an $o, p$ such that $a +o = b$ and $b + p = c$
          Then $a + o + p = c$ but since $o, p \notin \N$, $o + p \notin \N$.
           
        * Totality: Suppose $[a] \ne [b]$, and assume that there is no ordering
          defined between them, then since $b \notin [a]$, $\not\exists c, a + c = b \lor b + c = a$.
          But we can prove this inductively. So there must be a total order.
     
     c. * Least element: since for all $m$, $\lnot s(m) = 0$, $\N = [0]$ is the least element.
        * No greatest element: Suppose that there is a greatest element $g$. But then $[g + g] \leQ[g]$. 
        * Dense: 
            
