---
title: Homework 13
---

### 5.4.1

**Given:** $|G| = p^3$, $p$ prime.  
**Show:** $|Z(G)| = p$ or $G$ is abelian.  

By Lagrage's theorem, $|Z(G)|$ must be one of $1, p, p^2, p^3$

By Prop 5.4.2, $|Z(G)|$ cannot be $1$

If $|Z(G)|$ is $p^2$, then $| G/Z(G) | = \frac {|G|}{|Z(G)|} = p$. So $G/Z(G)
\cong Z_p$. So by Ex. 2.7.11, $G$ must be abelian. But if $G$ is
abelian, then $Z(G) = G$, and $|Z(G)| = p^3$. This is a contradiction, so
$|Z(G)|$ cannot be $p^2$

If $|Z(G)|$ is $p^3$ then it contains all the elements of $|G|$ and $G$ must be
abelian.

So $|Z(G)|$ must be $p$ or $G$ must be abelian.

### 5.4.3

Given:
> $P$ is $p$-Sylow of $G$.  
> $H \le N_G(P)$  
> $|H| = p^s$

$HP$ is a subgroup of $N_G(P)$

By Exercise 5.1.10, $P$ is normal in $N_G(P)$




### 5.4.11

$D_14 = \langle a, r | r^14 = e, a^2= e, ar = r ^{-1} a \rangle
= \{e, r, \cdots r^{13}, a, ar, \cdots ar^{13} \}$ has 28 elements.

Since 28 = 2^2 \cdot 7$, the 2-sylow groups have order $4$. $\{ e, a, r^7,
ar^7\} is one such group.

Similarly, $D_7$ has 14 elements, and $D_7 \times \mathbb Z_2 = \{ (d, 0), (d,
1) \forall d \in D_7 \}$ has 28 elements. A 2-sylow group is $\{(e, 0), (a, 0),
(e, 1), (a, 1) \}$

Let $\varphi: D_14 \to D_7 \times \mathbb Z_2$, such that $\varphi(a) = (a, 0)$ and $\varphi(r) = (r, 1)$


### 6.1.5

Since the $0$ matrix is in the subset, it isn't empty

Let $M, N$ be $n\times n$ matrices with  entries in $\mathbb N$.

Then, $M + N$ is also a square matrix with entries $(M+N)_{ij} = M_{ij} +
N_{ij} \in \mathbb N$. So addition is closed. Similarly, since $M_{ij} \in
\mathbb N$ it's inverse $-M_{ij}$ is also in $n$, so $-M$, it's inverse is also
in the subset.

$M\cdot N $ is also a square matrix, with entries $(M\cdot N)_{ij} =
\sum_{k=0}^n M_{i k} N_{k j} \in \mathbb N$, so $M\cdot N$ is in the subset and
the subset is closed under multiplication.

So the subset must be a subring.


By a similar argument, matrices with enteries in $\mathbb N$ are closed under
multiplication and addition.
However, these do not form a subring since all non-zero
elements do not have additive inverses. e.g. The inverse of matrix with (some)
non-zero entries has entries $-M_{ij} \notin \mathbb N$.

### 6.1.6.

The zero-polynomial is symmetric. So it's not empty.

Let $p = \sum p_{ijk}x^iy^jz^k,q = \sum q_{ijk}x^iy^jz^k$ be symmetric polys.  

Then $p+q = \sum (p_{ijk} + q_{ijk})x^iy^jz^k$ Since $p_{ijk} = p_{jki} \cdots$
and $q_{ijk} = q_{jki} \cdots$, $(p_{ijk} + q_{ijk} = p_{ijk} + q_{jki} \cdots$
and $p+q$ is symmetric, and the set is closed under addition.

Since $-p = \sum (-p_{ijk})x^iy^jz^k$ is also symmetric, the subset includes
inverses.

And $pq = \sum \sum (p_{ijk} q_{rst})x^{i+r}y^{j+s}z^{k+t}$
Since $p_{ijk} = p_{jki} \cdots$ and $q_{rst} = q_{str} \cdots$,
$(p_{ijk} q_{rst} = p_{ijk} q_{str} \cdots$
and $pq$ is symmetric, and the set is closed under multiplication.
