### 2.7.4 

For groups $G, H$ where $H \le G$, $G/H = \{ gH : g \in G \}$.  
So, by Lagrange's theorem, the order of $G/H = |G:H| = \frac {|G|}{|H|}$.

$$\begin{aligned}
A /_{A\cup N} &\cong AN/_N
    &\quad\ldots&\text{ by diamond isomotphism theorem} \\
|A /_{A\cup N}| &= |AN/_N|
    &\quad\ldots&\text{ since there is a bijection between them} \\
\frac {|A|}{|A\cup N|} &= \frac {|AN|}{|N|}
    &\quad\ldots&\text{ by Lagrange's theorem }
\end{aligned}$$

---

### 2.7.6

$\text{Aut}(G) = \{ \text{ Automorphisms on } G \}$

#### (a) show that $\text{Aut}(G)$ is a group under composition

Let $T:G\to G \text{ and } U:G\to G \in \text{Aut}(G)$. Then $\forall a, b \in G$,  

$$\begin{aligned} 
T\circ U(ab)  &= T(U(a)U(b))    \\
              &= T(U(a))T(U(b)) \\
              &= T\circ U(a) T\circ U(b)
\end{aligned}$$
So, $T\circ U$ is a homomorphism.

$T,U$ is an automorphism, so it is a injective,
$$\begin{aligned}
            && T(a) &= T(b) \quad\Longrightarrow\quad a = b \\
\text{ and} && U(a) &= U(b) \quad\Longrightarrow\quad a = b \\ 
\end{aligned}$$

$$\begin{aligned}
\text{ so}  && T\circ U(a) &= T\circ U(b) \\
\Rightarrow && T(U(a)) &= T(U(b)) \\
\Rightarrow && U(a) &= U(b) \\
\Rightarrow && a &= b \\
\end{aligned}$$
So $T\circ U$ is injective.

$T,U$ is an automorphism, so it is a surjective, so $T\circ U$ is surjective.

So, $\text{Aut}(G)$ is closed.

---

Let $T, U, V \in \text{Aut}(G), g \in G$, then
$T\circ (U \circ V)(g) = T(U(V(g))) = T \circ U(V(G)) = (T\circ U)\circ V(g)$
So $\text{Aut}(G)$ is associative

---

Let $E:G\to G, E(g) = g, T \in \text{Aut}(G)$, then $E$ is an automorphism and,
$T\circ E(g) = T(E(g)) = T(g)$, so $T\circ E \equiv T$
$E\circ T(g) = E(T(g)) = T(g)$, so $E\circ T \equiv T$
So, $E$ is the identity.

---

Forall $T \in \text{Aut}(G)$, $T$ is a bijection, so $T$ has an inverse  
$T\circ T ^{-1}(g) = g$, so $T\circ T ^{-1} \equiv E$  
$T^{-1}\circ T (g) = g$, so $T ^{-1}\circ T \equiv E$

--- 

So $\text{Aut}(G)$ is a Group.

---

#### 2.7.6 (b) Show that $c$ is a homo, given:
> $c_g: G \to G$ is an automorphism.  
> $c_g(x) = gxg ^{-1}$
>
> $c: G \to \text{Aut}(G)$  
> $c(g) = c_g$


$\forall g \in G$,
$$\begin{aligned}
c(ab) &= c_a \circ c_b = c_a(c_b(g)) = c_a(b g b ^{-1}) \\
      &= a (b g b ^{-1}) a ^{-1} = (ab) g(ab)^{-1} \\
      &= c_{ab}
\end{aligned}$$
So $c$ is a homomorphism.

---

#### 2.7.6 (c) Show that $\text{Kern}(c) \equiv Z(G)$

Let $n \in \text{ Kern(c)} \le G$, then $c(n) = c_n = e_{\text{Aut}(G)}$.  
Then $\forall g \in G$, $c_n(g) = ngn ^{-1} = e_{\text{Aut}(G)} = g = g nn ^{-1}$  
So, $ng = gn$. i.e. $n$ commutes with all elements of $G$, $n \in Z(G)$  
$\text{ Kern(c)} \subseteq Z(G)$

For $z \in Z(G)$, 
$$\begin{aligned}
               & zg = gz \\ 
\Longrightarrow& c_z(g) = zgz ^{-1} = zz ^{-1} g = g \\
\Longrightarrow& c_z \equiv e_{\text{Aut}(G)} \\
\Longrightarrow& Z(G) \subseteq \text{Kern(c)}
\end{aligned}$$

So, $\text{Kern(c)} \equiv Z(G)$

---

#### 2.7.6 (d) Show that $c(G) = Int(G) \cong G/_{Z(G)}$

$c(G) = \text{Int}(G)$, so $c:G\to \text{Int(G)}$ is a surjective homomorphism, and $Z(G)$ is
it's kernel. By the First Isomorphism Theorem, $\text{Int}(G) \cong G/Z(G)$

---
### 2.7.7 

$N = \{ e, r, r^2, r^3 \}$

$D_4 = \langle r, a | r^4 = e, a^2 = e, , ar = r ^{-1} a \rangle$  
That is $D_4$ can be generated from $a, r$ and every element in $D_4$ can be
written as $a^ir^j$ for some $i, j \in \mathbb N$

For all $r^k \in N, a^ir^j \in G$,

$$\begin{aligned}
 (a^ir^j)r^k(a^ir^j)^{-1} &= a^ir^jr^kr^{-j}a^{-i}\\ &= a^ir^ka^{-i} \\
                          &= a^ia^ir^{-k} &\quad\ldots&\text{ since }ar = r ^{-1} a  \\
                          &= (a^2)^i r^{-k} \\
                          &= e^ir^{-k} &\quad\ldots&\text{ since }a^2 = e \\
                          &= r^{-k} \in N
\end{aligned}$$
So $N$ is normal.

By the First Isomorphism Theorm, $D_4/N$ is isomorphic to the group who's kernel
is $N$, and by Lagrange's theorem, the order of this group is $|D_4/N| = \frac
{|D_4| } {|N|} = \frac 8 4 = 2$

---
### 2.7.11 Prove that if $G/Z(G)$ is cyclic, then $G$ is abelian.

$G/Z(G)$ is cyclic, so, $\exists pG \in G/Z(G)$, such that $pG$ generates
$G/Z(G)$.  
i.e.: $\forall x \in G/Z(G), x = (pG)^i = p^iG$, for some $i \in \mathbb N$

Since a group is partitioned into  it's cosets, each element of $G$ must be in
one coset.  
For any $a, b$ in $G$, $a = p^iz_1, b = p^jz_2 \text{ where } i, j \in \mathbb
N, z_1, z_2 \in Z(G)$

$$\begin{aligned}
ab &= p^iz_1 p^jz_2 \\
   &= p^{j+i}z_1z_2 &\quad\ldots&\text{ since }z_1, z_2 \text{ commute}\\
   &= p^jz_2p^iz_1 &\quad\ldots&\text{ since }z_1, z_2 \text{ commute}\\
   &= ba
\end{aligned}$$
So, $a, b$ commute, and $a, b \in Z(G)$
So, $G \equiv Z(G)$  
So, $G/Z(G) \equiv \{e\} \equiv \mathbb Z_1$ which is cyclic.
