## 51.1

### irreflexive and transitive $\Longrightarrow$ asymmetric and transitive

Suppose $R$ is not asymmetric, then $R \cap R^{-1} \ne \emptyset \Longrightarrow
\exists (a, b)$ such that $(a, b), (b, a) \in R$. By transitivity, $(a, a) \in R$.
But this is a contradiction since $R$ is irreflexive.

### irreflexive and transitive $\Longleftarrow$ asymmetric and transitive

R is asymmetric so, $R \cap R^{-1} = \emptyset$, and $\forall (a, b) \in R,
(b, a) \notin R \Longrightarrow (a, a) \notin R$ and $R$ is irreflexive.

## 51.2

### irreflexive, asymmetric, transitive R $\Longrightarrow$ $R\cup id_A$ is reflexive, antisymmetric and transitive

Let $S = id_A \cup R$. $S$ contains $id_A$, and so is reflexive.

$S \cap S^{-1} = \{ (a, b) | (a, b) \in S$ and $(b, a) \in S\}$.
Suppose $(a, b) \in S \cap S^{-1}$, then $(b, a) \in S \cap S^{-1}$. If $a \ne b$
then $(a, b), (b, a)$ must be in $R$. But $R$ since transitive and irreflexive
this is a contradiction. $S \cap S^{-1} = id_A$ and $S$ must be antisymmetric.

Since $S$ is reflexive $(a, b), (b, c) \in R\cup id_A \Longrightarrow (a, b) \in
 R$ or $a = b$, and $(b, c) \in R$ or $b = c$.
In all four cases, since $R$ is transitive, $(a, c) \in R \cup id_A$ and so
must be transitive.

### irreflexive R, $S = R\cup id_A$ is reflexive, antisymmetric and transitive $\Longrightarrow$ asymmetric, transitive R 

Let $(a, b), (b, c) \in R$. Then $a \ne b \ne c$ and $(a, b), (b, c) \in
S \Longrightarrow (a, c) \in S \Longrightarrow (a, c) \in R$. So $R$ is transitive.

Since $R$ is transitive and irreflexive, it must also be asymetric (by previous
result).

## 51.3

### R reflexive antisymmetric transitive $\Longrightarrow R - id_A$ irreflexive, transitive

$J = R - id_A$ must be irreflexive, since $(R - id_A) \cap id_A = \emptyset$.
Let $(a, b), (b, c) \in J \Longrightarrow (a, b), (b, c) \in R \Longrightarrow
(a, c) \in R \Longrightarrow (a, c) \in J$, since $a \ne b \ne c \ne a$.

### $R - id_A$ irreflexive, transitive $\Longrightarrow R - id_A$ asymetric, transitive

This hold by by 51.2

### $J = R - id_A$ asymetric, transitive, $R$ reflexive $\Longrightarrow R$ antisymmetric, transitive

Let $(a, b), (b, c) \in R$ and $a \ne b \ne c \ne a$, then, since $R$ is
transitive $(a, b), (b, c) \in J \Longrightarrow (a, c) \in J \Longrightarrow (a, c) \in R$.
Otherwise, if $a = b$ or $b = c$ it also holds that $(a, c) \in R$ so  $R$
is transitive.

Since $R$ is asymetric, it must also be antisymmetric ($R \cap R ${-1} \emptyset \Longrightarrow R \cap R ${-1} \subseteq id_A$)

The final results, $(i) \Longleftrightarrow (ii) \Longleftrightarrow$ follows from these.


## 55

No.

$$\begin{aligned} \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \\
\end{aligned}$$

## 57

We will prove this by induction on the size of subsets.
If $A$ has 0 or 1 elements, then the hypothisis is true trivially.
Let $S = \{a, b\}$. Since $\bigvee S$ exists, either $a \ge b$
or $b \ge a$, and $\bigwedge S$ must exist.
For subset $T$ of size greater than 2, we can partition it in to two subsets, $A$
and $B$. By the inductive hypothesis, for each $\bigwedge$ exists. Then $\bigwedge T = \bigwedge \{ \bigwedge A, \bigwedge B \}$.
So, by induction, for every countable $A$, a complete sup semilattice is a complete
lattice.

The proof for complete inf lattices is similar.


## 61

The equivalence relations on any set correspond to the possible partitions
of that set. If $\{ A, B, C \}$ are the partitions of a set, then $A \times A \cup B \times B \cup C \times C$
is an equivalence relation. $\{0, 1, 2\}$ has 5 partitions:

1. All elements are in the same equivalence class
2. Each element is in an equivalence class on it's own
3. One element is in a singleton set, while the other two are in a class together. There are three such classes.
