---
title: Homework 2 - Math 500
author: Nishant Rodrigues
geometry: margin=1cm
fontsize: 12pt
---

\newcommand{\norm}{\mathrel{\triangleleft}}
\newcommand{\iso }{\mathrel{\cong}}
\newcommand{\Z   }{\mathbb Z}

1.  Show that the group $G$ of order $280$ has a normal subgroup of
    order 5, 7 or 8.

    *Proof:* Since $|G| = 280 = 2^8 \cdot 5 \cdot 7$, by Sylow's
    theorem, $G$ has $p$-sylow subgroups of the order:

    $$\begin{matrix}
    2:   &m_2 = 35,   & n_2 = 1 \mod 2,    & n_2 | m_2 \implies& n_2 \in \{ 1, 5, 7, 35 \} \\
    5:   &m_5 = 56,   & n_5 = 1 \mod 5,    & n_5 | m_5 \implies& n_5 \in \{ 1, 56       \} \\
    7:   &m_7 = 40,   & n_7 = 1 \mod 7,    & n_7 | m_7 \implies& n_7 \in \{ 1, 8        \} \\
    \end{matrix}$$

    Suppose that there are more than one $5-$ and $7-$sylow subgroups.
    Since those groups have prime order, all non-identity elementents
    generate the subgroups. These subgroups cannot intersect as that
    would mean that the groups they generate are the same. This, there
    must be $4 \cdot 56 + 6 \cdot 8 = 272$ non-identity elements.
    $2-$sylow subgroups must be of order $8$, containing $7$
    non-identity elements. Thus, there can be at most one $2-$sylow
    subgroup.

    This means that there must be either exactly one $2-$, $5-$ or
    $7-$sylow group. By corollary 20, there must be one $p-$sylow group
    of size 2, 5 or 8.

2.  Let $|G| = mp$, $p$ prime, $1 < m < p$. Prove that $G$ is not
    simple.

    *Proof:* By Sylow's theorem, The number of $p-$sylow subgroups,
    $n_p = 1 \mod p$ and $n_p | m$. But since $m < p$, $n_p$ must be
    equal to 1. By corollary 20, the unique $p-$sylow group must be
    normal, and $G$ is not simple.

3.  Let $G$ be a finite group. $P, P'$ Sylow $p-$subgroups of $G$ such
    that $P' \subset N_G(P)$, with $N_G(P)$ the normalizer of $P$ in
    $G$. Show that $P = P'$.

    -   $P' \le N_G(P)$,
    -   $\implies P', P$ are $p-$sylow subgroups of $N_G(P) \le G$.
    -   $\implies$ Since $P {\triangleleft}N_G(P)$, $P$ is the unique
        $p-$sylow subgroup of $N_G(P)$.
    -   $\implies$ $P = P'$

4.  Let $N {\triangleleft}G$.

    a.  Show that $G/N$ and $N$ are solvable then $G$ is solvable.
    
        Let $G / N = G'$. Since $G'$ is  solvable, we have $G_0' \norm
        G_1' \norm G_2' \norm \cdots \norm G'$, $G_{i+1}' / G_i'$ abelian.
        By the lattice isomorphism theorem, there exists a bijection between
        the subgroups of $G$ and the subgroups of $A/N$.
        By the third isomorphism theorem, we have
        $G'_{i+1}/ G'_i \iso \frac {G_{i+1}/N } {G_i / N} \iso G_{i_1} / G_i$.
        
        Thus, there exists $1 \norm N_0 \norm \cdots \norm N_k = N = G_0 \norm \cdots \norm G_m = G$
        and $G$ is solvable.

    b.  Show by example that $G / N$ is nilpotent, then $G$ need not be
        nilpotent.
        
        Take $S_3 = \{ e, (1 2), (1 3), (2 3), (1 2 3), (1 3 2)\}$.
        $A_3 (\norm S_3) = \{ e, (1 2 3) (1, 3, 2)\}$.
        $S_3/A_3 \iso \Z_2$.
        
        $Z_0(A_3) = 1 \le Z_1(A_3) = Z(A_3) = A_3 \implies A_3$ nilpotent. 
        
        $Z_0(S_3/A_3) = Z_0(\Z_2) = 1 \le Z_1(\Z_2) = \Z_2 \implies \Z_2$ nilpotent.
        
        $Z_0(S_3) = 1 \le Z_1(S_3) = Z(S_30 = 1 \le Z_2(S_3) = S(S_3 / Z(S_3)) = 1$.
        The central series for $S_3$ converges at $1$, so $S_3$ is not nilpotent.

    c.  Show that if $G/N$ is nilpotent and and $N\subset Z(G)$, then
        $G$ is nilpotent.
        
        Since $G' = G/N$ is nilpotent, there exists
        $Z_0(G') = 1 \le Z_1(G') = \cdots \le Z_n(G/N) = G/N$.
        
        Claim: $Z_i(G/N) \times N \iso Z_i(G)$ where $Z_i(G)$ form an upper
        central series, $i > 0$.
        
        Base case: $Z_1(G/N) \times N \iso Z_1(G)$. Let
        $h: Z(G/N)\times N \to Z(G), h: (gN, n) \mapsto gn$.
        
        Inductive case:  $Z_i(G/N) \times N \iso Z_i(G)$ and
        $Z_{i}(G/N) \subseteq Z(G/Z_i(G))$
        
        * $\frac {Z_{i+1}(G/N)} {Z_i(G/N)} = Z(G/Z_i(G/N))$       
        * $\implies \frac {Z_{i+1}(G/N) \times N } {Z_i(G)} = Z(\frac {G\times N } {Z_i(G)})$
        * $\implies {Z_{i+1} (G/N)\times N }  = {Z_i(G)} \times Z(\frac {G\times N } {Z_i(G)})$

        So $G$ must be  nilpoptent. 

5.  For a group $G$, prove that the $i$th derived subgroup $G^{(i)}$ is normal
    in $G$.
    
    Assume $G^{(i)}$ is normal in $G$.
    Then $G^{k+1} = [G^k, G^k] = \{ [x, y] : x, y \in G^k \} 
                  = \{ x^{-1} y^{-1} xy \}$
    $\forall g \in G, g  x^{-1} y^{-1} xy g ^{-1} 
           = (g x^{-1} g^{-1})(gy^{-1}g^{-1})(g xg^{-1})(gy g^{-1})
           = (g x g^{-1})^{-1}(gyg^{-1})^{-1}(g xg^{-1})(gy g^{-1})$
    Since $(g xg^{-1}), (gy g^{-1}) \in G^k$, $G^{k+1}$ is normal in $G$.

6.  *Show:* a non-abelian group $G$ of order $pq$, with $p\ne q$ prime,
    is solvable, but not nilpotent.

    Assume without loss of generality, that $q < p$. Then
    $n_p = 1 + kp | q \implies n_p = 1$. By corollary 20 (p 142),
    $P \in {\text{Sylow}}_p {\triangleleft}G$.
    $\implies 1 {\triangleleft}P {\triangleleft}G$. $\implies G$ is
    solvable.

    $G$ nilpotent, implies $G = P \times Q$ where
    $Q \in {\text{Sylow}}_q(G)$. Since $p$ and $q$ are co-prime,
    $P\times Q$ must be cyclic and abelian. But $G$ is non-abelian. So
    $G$ can not be nilpotent.

    *Show:* Such a group exists wheneever $q|p-1$.

    Consider the field ${\mathbb F}_p$, $p > 2$. It's non-identity
    elements form a cyclic group of size $p - 1$ with field
    multiplication. For each factor $q$, dividing $p - 1$, there are
    cyclic subgroups of order $q$.

    Consider $\begin{bmatrix}a & b \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}$, where
    $a \in Q, b \in {\mathbb F}_p$ with matrix multiplication.
    We can trivially show that it is a group. It is non-abelian
    since:
    $$\begin{bmatrix}1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
      \begin{bmatrix}2 & 0 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
      = 
      \begin{bmatrix}2 & 1 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
    \text{, but }
    \begin{bmatrix}2 & 0 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
      \begin{bmatrix}1 & 1 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
      = 
      \begin{bmatrix}2 & 2 \\ 0 & 1\end{bmatrix}
    $$

    This has $pq$ elements for each $q$ dividing $p-1$.

