---
title: Math 500 - Homework 4
author: Nishant Rodrigues
geometry: margin=2cm
---

\newcommand \N {\mathbb N}
\newcommand \Q {\mathbb Q}
\newcommand \Z {\mathbb Z}

1.  a.  $(q) = Q$ is prime in S: $\forall ab \in Q, q | a$ or $q | b$.

        Take
        $ab \in f^{-1}(Q) \implies f(a)f(b) \in Q, \implies f(a) \in Q, \lor f(b) \in Q \implies a \in f^{-1}(Q) \lor b \in f^{-1}(Q)$

    b.  Let $h: \Z[x, y, z] \to \Z[x]$, where
        $p(x, y, z) \mapsto p(x, 0, 0)$ then $(2, x)$ is maximal in $\Z[x]$
        but it's preimage $(2,x)$ is not maximal in $Z[z, y, z]$

2.  Show that $I = (x^2 + 1, y - 1)$ is maximal in $\Q[x, y]$

    Let $h: \Q[x, y] \to \Q[i]: p(x, y) \mapsto (i, 1)$. This is a
    homomorphism. It's kernel is $(x^2 + 1, y - 1)$, since
    $r_1(x^2 + 1) + r_2(y - 1) = 0, \forall r_1, r_2 \in \Q[x, y]$.
    By the first isomorphism theorem, $Q[x, y] / I \cong \Q[I]$.
    Since this is a field, $I$ must be maximal.

3.  a.  $x$ is divisible by all primes, since $x / p \in x\Q[x]$.

        Let prime $p = (z_1 + xp_1(x))(z_2 + x p_2(x))
                     = z_1 z_2 + z_1 x p_2(x) + z_2 x p_1(x) + x^2 p_1(x) p_2(x)$
        . But $p \in \Z$, and $x \Q[x]$ intersects $\Z$ trivially. So $p = z_1 z_2$ ($z_1 x p_2(x) + z_2 x p_1(x) + x^2 p_1(x) p_2(x) = 0$).
        But the primes are irreducible in $\Z$ so $p$ is irreducible in $R$.
        
        For all $p$ prime in $\Z$, $x = p \frac x p$ and $\frac x p \in R$.
        But $p$ is irreducible, and $\frac x p$ is not ($\frac x p = \frac x  {pq} q, q$ prime, and so on.
        Thus $x$ is not irreducible, not the product of irreducibles

    b.  Notice that $\mathbb C$ is a field, so $\mathbb C[x^2, x^3]$ is an ID, and deg(ab) = deg(a) + deg(b).
        Since $x^2$ is a degree 2 element, and there are no degree 1 elements,\
        this means that if $x^2 = ab$, either $a$ or $b$ are in $\Q$ and is a unit
        and so $x^2$ is irreducible.
        
        Similarly for $x^3$, even though there are degree two elements,
        there are no degree one elements, and if $x^3 = ab$, then either $a \in Q$ or $b \in Q$
        and one is a unit.
    
        $x^6 = x^2 \cdot x^2 \cdot x^2 = x^3 \cdot x^3$ where $x^2$ and  $x^3$
        are both irreducible.

4.  Take $0 \ne  I\subseteq R$ ideal.
    $\forall  a \ne 0 \in I,\exists J_a,\subseteq R$, ideal, such that $IJ_a = (a)$. 
    
    Since $a \in IJ_a$,
    $a = x_{a1} y_{a1} + \cdots + x_{an} y_{an}, x_{ai} \in I, y_{ai}  \in J_a$. 
    $\implies a \in R x_{a1}+ \cdots R x_{an}$. Let $I' = R x_{a1}+ \cdots + R x_{an}$.
    
    $IJ_a = (a) \subseteq I'J_a$. $\forall x_{ai} \in I, \implies I' \subseteq I$.
    $I'Ja \subseteq I J_a \implies IJ_a = I'J_a$.
    
    
    Similarly, $a = Ry_{a1} + \cdots + Ry_{an} \subseteq J_a$, $a \in J_a$ and $\exists I , I' \ni J_aI = J_a I ' = (a)$
    
    $\implies I = I' = Rx_{ai} + \cdots + Rx_{an}$ is finitely generated.
    
