---
title: Homework 8
---

\newcommand \nr {\sqrt[9] {-1}}

1. 
    a.  We notice that $x^9 + 1 = (x^6 - x^3 + 1)(x + 1) (x^2 - x + 1)$.
        i.e. the polynomial has as it's roots, a subset of the 9th roots of
        $-1$. Since the It's roots are
        $\nr, -\nr^2, \nr^3, -\nr^4, \nr^5, -\nr^6, \nr^7, -\nr^8$ in $\C$. Since
        all of these roots generate all the others, $\Q(\alpha)$ is the
        splitting field. Since the polynomial is seperable, $Q(\alpha)$ is
        Galois. Since the group of homomorphisms must permute the roots of
        this polynomial, the Galois group must be finite.

    b.  Let $h$ be the homomorphism defined is generated by
        $\nr \mapsto - \nr^2$, the Galois group is cyclic of order 6, and so
        finite. As previously shown in `a.`, these are distinct roots
        none of which are in $\Q$, so the polynomial must be irreducible in $\Q[x]$.
        
        Let $h$ be the automorphism defined by: $\nr \mapsto -\nr^2$, then:
        
        $$\begin{matrix}
        h   : &\nr& \mapsto& - \nr^2     &  =& - \nr^2 &&                    \\
        h^2 : &\nr& \mapsto& h(-\nr^2)   &  =& - (-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)                        & =&& - \nr^4                   \\
        h^3 : &\nr& \mapsto& h(-\nr^4)   &  =& (-\nr^4)(-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)                  & =&& - \nr^8                   \\
        h^4 : &\nr& \mapsto& h(-\nr^8)   &  =& (-\nr^8)(-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)  & =& - \nr^{16} = &\nr^7                  \\
        h^5 : &\nr& \mapsto& h( -\nr^7)  &  =& (-\nr^8)      (-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)(-\nr^2)    & =& - \nr^{14} = &\nr^5                  \\
        h^6 : &\nr& \mapsto& h( -\nr^5)  &  =& - \nr^1                                   & =&&   \nr                 \\
        h^7 : &\nr& \mapsto& -\nr^2      &  =& h
        \end{matrix}$$
        
        Since this is a cycle generated by $h$ of size $6$, the $\gal(\Q(\nr) / \Q) \iso \Z_6$


    c.  The subgroups are $\langle  h^2 \rangle = \langle a \mapsto - a^4 \rangle$
        and $\langle h^3 \rangle = \langle i \mapsto -h^8 \rangle$ corresponding
        to the fields $\Q(-\nr^4)$, $\Q(-\nr^8)$

\newcommand \frt {\sqrt[4] 3}

2.  a.  Over $\Q$ the polynomial is irreducible by Eisenstiens Critereon.
        Let $\frt$ be a root of $x^4 - 3$, and $i$ a 4th root of $1$ not in $\Q$.
        The polynomial is irreducible by Eisenstien.
        Clealy, $i \notin \Q(\frt)$, but it is in the splitting field of the
        polynomial ($i\frt$ and $\frt$ are both solutions).
        So, we have the following field inclusion: $$\Q \le \Q(\frt) \le \Q(\frt, i)$$

        $h \in \aut(\Q(\frt) / \Q)$ must permute the roots of the minimal polynomial
        $x^4 - 3$ that are in $\Q(\frt)$. Thus, it must be $\Z_2$.

        The minimal polynomial of $i$, $x^2 + 1$ is irreducible and so $[\Q(\frt, i) : \Q(\frt)] = 2$
        
        So $[\Q(\frt, i) : \Q] = 2\cdot  2 = 4$

        ---
        
        \renewcommand \frt {\sqrt[4] 2}
        
        In $\F_5$, $3^{-1} = 2$, so $x^4 - 3 \equiv 2 x^4 = 1 \pmod 5$.
        But, $\forall y \ne 0, y^4 \equiv 1 \pmod 5$, so there are no roots
        in $\F_5$. Let $\frac 1 {\frt}$ be a root. We notice that $\frt, 2\frt, 3\frt$ and $4\frt$
        are also distinct roots (one of them must be the same as the original root).
        Since these roots are distinct, $x^4 - 3$ is seperable, and $\F_5(\frt)$
        is the splitting field of $x^4 - 3$. Now, $\gal(\F_5(\frt) / \F_5) \le S_4$,
        and the homomorphism defined be $\frt \mapsto 2\frt$ generates it.
        So $\Z_4 \le \gal(\F_5(\frt) / \F_5)$. Since the field is a simple extension,
        the galois group must be generated by a single element so the degree must
        be $4$.
        

2.  b.  By Fermat's little theorem, $x^p - x = 0 \pmod p, \forall x, p$
        prime. i.e. $x^{p-1} - 1$ has a root in $\F_p$. These are
        $p - 1$ distinct roots for a $p-1$th degree polynomial. So these
        are all it's roots. Let $\alpha$ be a root of $x^4 - 3$, then if
        this divides $x^{p-1} - 1$ Then, it's roots are in $\F_p$. So
        the degree of the extension is 1.

        By Euler's law, $x^{p(p-1)} \equiv 1 \mod {p^2}$ giving us
        $a^{p^2} \equiv a^p \mod {p^2}$ ???. Similarly assume all the
        roots of $x^{p^2} - x = 0 \pmod p$ are in $\F_p$ as stated in
        the hint. Then, if $x^4 - 3$ divides $x^{p^2 - 1} - 1$, but not the above plynomial,
        its roots must all be in $\F_{p^2}$.
       
        
