## Exercise 2

$\text{Prime} = \{ p \in \mathbb N \| \forall a, b \in \mathbb N, ab = p \Longrightarrow a = 1 \lor b = 1 \}$

## Exercise 12

The set $\mathcal P (\emptyset)$ is the set of all subsets of the empty set.
Since there is only one, the empty set, $\mathcal P (\emptyset) = \{ \emptyset \}$.
Similarly, $\mathcal P (\mathcal P( \emptyset) ) = \{ \emptyset, \{ \emptyset \} \}$
and  $\mathcal P (\mathcal P (\mathcal P( \emptyset) )) =
        \{ \emptyset
        ,  \{ \emptyset \}
        ,  \{ \{ \emptyset \} \}
        ,  \{ \emptyset, \{ \emptyset \} \}
        \}$

We will prove this using induction:  
**Base case:** For $|A| = 0 \Longrightarrow A \emptyset \Longrightarrow \mathcal P (\emptyset) = 1 = 2^0$.  
**Inductive case:** For $|A| = n \ge 1$, since $A$ has at least one element, say
$x$, we can write $A = \{x\} \cup A'$ where $A' = A - \{x\}$. By the inductive
hypothesis we know that $|\mathcal P (A')| = 2^{n-1}$. All other subsets must
contain $x$. Since $x \notin A'$ and $s \in \mathcal P (A') \Longrightarrow s
\cup \{x\} \in \mathcal P (A)$ there are another $2^{n-1}$ subsets containing
$x$. Since there can be no other subsets, $|\mathcal P (A)| = 2 ^ {n-1} + 2 ^
{n-1} = 2^n$.

## Exercise 24

1. $
                    (x, y) \in f
   \Longrightarrow  (y, y) \in f ^{-1} ; f
   \Longrightarrow  f ^{-1} ; f \subseteq \text{id}_B
   $

   Since $f$ is a function, $\forall a \in A, \exists b \in B$ such that $(a, b)
   \in f$. $\Longrightarrow \forall a \in A, (a, a) \in f ; f ^{-1}, \Longrightarrow  
   id_A \subset f; f ^{-1}$

2. function

   $\Longrightarrow$: By 24.1.  
   $\Longleftarrow$: Since $id_A \subseteq R ; R ^{-1}$, we know that for all
   $\forall a \in A, \exists b \in B$ such that $(a, b) \in R$. So $R$ is
   defined on the whole domain $A$.

   Suppose $\exists (a, b), (a, b') \in R$. Then $(b, b') \in R ^{-1} ; R
   \subseteq id_B \Longrightarrow b = b'$. Thus $R$ assigns a unique element of
   $B$ to every element of $A$ and so must be a function.

3. surjective

   $\Longrightarrow$: Since $f$ is surjective, $\forall b \in B, \exists a \in
   A$ such that $(a, b) \in f \Longrightarrow (b, b) \in f ^{-1} ; f \Longrightarrow
   f ^{-1} ; f \subseteq id_B$. Since $f$'s co-domain is $B$, $f ^{-1} ; f$ can
   have no other values.

   $\Longleftarrow$: Since $f ^{-1} ; f = id_b$, we know that $f ^{-1}$ is
   defined for all elements of $B$ (since $(b, b) \in f ^{-1} ; f
   \Longrightarrow \exists a \in A, (b, a) \in f ^{-1}, (a, b) \in f$). So $f$
   must be surjective.

4. injective:
   $\Longrightarrow$: Since $f$ is injective, $\forall a \in A, \exists ! b \in B$
   such that $(a,b) \in f \Longrightarrow \forall (a, a') \in f ; f ^{-1}, a =
   a' \Longrightarrow f ; f ^{-1} = id_a$

   $\Longleftarrow$: Suppose $f(a) = f(a') = b \Longrightarrow (a, b), (a', b)
   \in f \Longrightarrow (a, a') \in f; f ^{-1} \Longrightarrow (a, a') \in id_A
   \Longrightarrow a = a' \Longrightarrow f$ is injective

5. $\Longrightarrow$: Since $f$ is surjective, we know that $\forall b \in B,
   \exists a \in A$ such that $(a, b) \in f$. i.e. every element in $B$ is
   mapped to by some element of $A$. Since $f$ is also injective, this element
   must be unique. So $f ^{-1}$ must be a total function.

   $\Longleftarrow$: Since $f ^{-1}$ is a function, it maps $b \in B$ to a
   unique $a \in A$. This mean that $f$ must be injective. Since $f ^{-1}$ is total,
   every element of $B$ is mapped to by some value in $A$ and so $f$ must be
   surjective. So $f$ is bijective.

6. By 24 .3, .4 and .5, $f ^{-1}$ is that function. Similarly $f ^{-1}$ must be
   a function iff $f$ is bijective.

   Show that $g$ is unique: Suppose that $g \ne f ^{-1}$. Then $\exists (a, b)
   \in A \times B$ such that $(a, b) \in f, (b, a) \notin g$. Since $g$ is a
   function $\exists a' \in A, (b, a') \in g, a \ne a'$. But this implies
   that $(a, a') \in f; g = id_A$ which is a contradiction. So $g = f ^{-1}$

## Exercise 25

1. Since $f$ is a left inverse, $\exists g, f;g = id_A$. Suppose $f$ is not
   injective. Then $\exists a \ne a' \in A, b \in B$ such that $(a, b), (a', b)
   \in f$. Then, $(a, a') \in f;g = id_A$, but this is a contradiction.
   So $f$ must be injective.

2. By 24.4, $f ;f  ^{-1} = id_A$. Take $g(b) = a$ if $b \in f(A)$ otherwise
   $g(b) = a'$ for an arbitrary $a' \in A$ (this exists since $A \ne \emptyset$
   $g$ is a total function and $f;g = id_A$, so $f$ is a left inverse.

3. Since $f$ is a right inverse, $\exists g$ such that $g; f = id_B$.
   $(b, b) \in g; f \Longrightarrow \exists a \in A, (a, b) \in f$.
   So $f$ must be surjective.

4. $\Longrightarrow$: By 25.1 and .3, $f$ must be bijective.

   $\Longleftarrow$: Since $f$ is bijective, it's inverse must exist, and by
   24.6 it must be both a left and right inverse.

