---
title: Homework 11
---

## `3.3 (3)` Orientable manifolds have orientable covers

Let $M$ be a connected orientable manifold, and $\squiggle M$ be its orientation cover, with map
$o: M \to \squiggle M$. Let $p : \bar N \to M$ be a connected cover of $M$. Since $\squiggle M$ has
two components, each a copy of $M$ with opposite orrientations, we can define a cover $\squiggle p$
from two copies of $\bar M$ to $\squiggle M$ such that $\squiggle p ; o = \bar o ; b$, where $\bar o$
takes each copy of $\bar M$ to $\bar M$, such that the diagram shown commutes.
Since covers are locally homotopic to the space at each point, we have $H_n(N | \{ n\}) \iso
H_N( M | \{ p(n) \})$, and $\squiggle p$ is an orientation covering. 

## `3.3 (5)` Product of orientable manifolds

The generators for the homology group $H_n(X \times Y | \{(x,y)\})$ is a quotient of the
product of the generators of $H_n(X | \{x\})$ and $H_n(Y | \{y\})$.

## 4: Generalized homology thoeries form a category

The collection of objects is the homology theory, the arrows, the collection of natural
transformations $\Phi_n : h_n \Rightarrow k_n$ as stated. The collection of identities on form a
morphism. Let this be the identity morphism.

Consider two morphisms between the homology theories $h_n$, $k_n$ and $l_n$,
$\Phi_n : h_n\Rightarrow k_n$ and $\Psi_n: k_n\Rightarrow l_n$. We have
$\delta^k \compose \Psi_n \compose \Phi_n =\Psi_n \compose \delta^l \compose \Phi_n =\Psi_n \compose \Phi_n \compose \delta^h$
Since the composition of morphisms is a morphism, this forms a category.

## 5

$H_n^Z(X, A)$ and $H_n^{Z'}(X, A)$ are each different homology theories and form two categories
with objects sequences of homlogy groups, and morphisms chain maps.

The map $f: Z \to Z'$ induces a map of chain complexes between the homology groups in one category
and the other. Thus to each object (chain complex) in $H_n^Z$ it assigns a chain complex in
$H_n^{Z'}$. This map commutes with induced maps from $(X, A) \to (Y, B)$ in each category,
since it is part of the larger category of algebraic homology groups. It also sends the identity
to the identity thus forming a functor between the categories.
