---
title: Math 525 - Homework 2
---

1.  a.  Let $p: I \to \R^3$ be a path based at $(0, 0, 0)$ in $\R$. This
        is homotopic to the constant path, e.g. via the map
        $f_t: (x, y, z) \mapsto (x(1-t), y(1-t), z(1-t))$. i.e.
        $f_t$ and $p$ define a homotopy from $p$ to the constant path.

        Suppose by way of contradiction, there is a retraction $r$ to
        $S^1$. $r|S^1$ is the identity. $r\compose f_t : I \to S^1$ is a
        homotopy from any path on the circle to the constant path. But
        the circle has a non-trivial fundamental group. This is a
        contradiction.

    b.  Suppose $r$ is such a retract from $\S^1 \times \D^2$ to its
        boundry torus $\S^1 \times \S^1$. Then, for any $t > 0$,
        we can define a retract $r_t: \D^2 \to \S^1$ from the disk to the circle.
        As shown in Theorem 1.9, this is a contradiction.

    c.  Clearly $X$ retracts to a point (e.g. with the map in `1.a.` and
        treating each component as a subset of $\R^2$). 
        
        A path $p$ of
        $\S^1$ is also a path on $\S^1 \wedge \S^1$. Thus if there is a
        retract from $X \to A$, it is a retract from $\S^1$ to a
        constant

    d.  $X$ retracts to a circle, e.g. by a homotopy that brings the sides of
        closer together. If $X$ retracted to $\S^1 \times S^1$, we would be
        able to show that the fundamental group of $A$ is $\Z$, but this is
        a contradiction (since it is actually the free group generated by two elements).

    e.  Consider two paths $p, q$ from $p_1, q_1$ to $p_2, q_2$ across the band traversing the interior of the band.
        We can continuously move $q$ along the band, until it comes up near $p$ from the other side.
        The path $q$ would however be flipped.
        
2.  $\Rightarrow$: Suppose that $[\gamma]$ is the identity in
    $\Pi_1(X)$. Then, $\gamma \homotopic c_{x_0}$ the constant map. This
    means that there is a continuous function: $f: I \times \S^1 \to X$,
    such that $f(0, \_) = \gamma$, and $f(1, \_) = x_0$. But, $\D^2$ can
    be parametrized as $I \times \S^1$, i.e. polar coordinates. Thus,
    $\gamma$ exteds to a map $\D^2 \to X$.

    $\Leftarrow$: Suppose that there is an extension
    $\bar \gamma: \D^2 \to X$, $\bar\gamma|_{\S^1} = \gamma$. Assuming
    polar coordinates, we have a map, $\bar\gamma: I \times \S \to X$,
    such that $\bar\gamma|_{\S^1} = \bar\gamma(1, \_) = \gamma$. Since this is a continuous function in polar ,
    coordinates, $\bar\gamma(0, t)$ must agree for all $t$. Let $\bar\gamma(0, t) = x_0$.
    This is a homotopy. Thus, $\gamma \homotopic c_{x_0}$, and $[\gamma]$ is the identity.

3.  First note that in a path connected space, all paths that are not
    loops are homotopic: We can "move" the path along a path connecting
    their endpoints. Moreover, these are all homotopic to the constant
    path. Thus, we shall not consider paths that are not loops.

    Let $Y = [\S^1, X]$. Suppose $X$ is path connected. Let $[p_{y_0}] \in Y$ be
    a loop based at $y_0$. Since $Y$ is path connected, there is a path
    $f$ from $x_0$ to $y_0$. Thus,
    $p_{y_0} \homotopic f\cdot p_{y_0} \cdot f^{-1}$, and $[p_{y_0}] = [f\cdot p_{y_0} \cdot f^{-1}]\in \Pi_1(X, x_0)$, and
    $\Phi$ is onto.
    
    ---

    Since $f$ and $g$ are loops based at the same point, consider $f$ and $g$ as functions from $\S^1$ to $X$.
    Here a change in basepoints is simply a reparametrization.
    $a \cdot b = b \cdot a$ modulo change in basepoint, i.e. we use the reparametrization map: $0 \mapsto \pi$.
    Thus, elements commute in $[\S^1, X]$ if $X$ is connected.

    $\Leftarrow$:
    Suppose $[f]$ and $[g]$ are conjugate in $\Pi_1(X)$.
    i.e. There is some $[c] \in \Pi_1(X)$ such that
    $[c][f][c]^{-1} = [c \compose f \compose c^{-1}]= [g]$.
    Then, $\Phi([g]) = \Phi([c])\Phi([f])\Phi([c^{-1}]) = \Phi([c^{-1}])\Phi([c])\Phi([f]) = \Phi([f])$
    
    $\Rightarrow$: Suppose $\Phi([f]) = \Phi([g])$.
    Since the images of $[f], [g]$ are equal, there must be some different choice in basepoints, i.e. reparametrization
    $f',g'$ of $f \in [f],g \in [g]$ so that $f' \homotopic g'$.
    Let $f_1$ the path from the base point of $f$ to the basepoint of $f'$ along $f$.
    and $f_2$ be the path from the base point of $f'$ to the basepoint of $f$ along $f$.
    Clearly, $f = f_1 \cdot f_2$, and $f' = f_2 \cdot f_1 \homotopic g'$.
    and $f = f_1 \cdot f_2 \cdot f_1 \cdot f_1 {-1} = f_1 f' f_1^{-1} \homotopic f_1 g' f_1'$.
    Similarly $g' \homotopic g_2\cdot g \cdot g_2^{-1}$.
    Thus, $f \homotopic f_1 g_2 g g_2{-1} f_1^{-1}$ based at $x_0$ and $[f]$ is conjugate with $[g]$.

4.  Orientation of the plane is given by $\R\times \S^2$
    Gives us a continuous function $f: \R\times \S^2 \to \R^3$ stating how much
    of each set is "above" the plane.
    
    Fix a point $p$ in $\R^3$. Fix this point as the origin for spherical coordinates.
    For each 3D angle, there must be an interval in $\R$,
    such that a plane perpendicular to the vector at a distance from the origin in that interval bisects $A_0$.
    This is because, since $A_n$s are bounded, there must be some distance at which
    the set is completely on one side of the plane and another at which it is on the other.
    Since this is a continuous function, by intermediate value theorem, at some distance it must bisect the set.
    
    Now, we can define a continuous function $f: \S^2 \to \R^2$ indicating how much
    of the sets $A_1$ and $A_2$ are on a particular side of this plane at the midpoint
    of that interval. By Borsuk Ulam, there must be an $x$ such that $f(x) = f(-x)$.
    i.e. areas on opposite sides of the plane are equal.
    

5.  We want to show that, given a path $p$ in $X \times Y$, there are
    paths $x, y$ in $X$ and $Y$ such that
    $p \homotopic x\times\{y_0\} \cdot \{x_0\} \times y$.

    Consider the paths $p_X$ and $p_Y$,
    $p_X(t) = (p(t)_0, y_0)$ and $p_Y(t) = (x_0, p(t)_1)$.
    i.e. the product of the projection onto $X$ and $\{y_0\}$ and
    the product of the projection onto $Y$ and $\{x_0\}$.

    $p_X$ is clearly homotopic to the reparametrization that is constant for the first half
    and  $p_Y$ is to the reparametrization that is constant for the second half.
    Call these $p'_X$ and $p'_Y$.

    Thus, we have: $p = p_X \compose p_Y \homotopic p'_X \compose p'_Y = p_X \cdot p_Y$.
