1.  Opening up the cube results in a skeleton as follows:

    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    Note that $a, b, c, d$ are edges parallel to the X axis,
    $e, f, g, h$ are to the $Y$ and $i, j, k, l$ to the $X$ axis.

    We identify the antipodal edges: $$\begin{tabular}{ c | c | c }
    a = c & e = g & i = k \\
    b = d & f = h & j = l
    \end{tabular}$$

    Resulting in:

    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    Let the basepoint be at the intersection of $a, f$ and $i$. Let $A$,
    $B$ and $C = A \intersect B$ be as follows:

    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    To get from the intersection of $a, f, i$ back to the same point,
    the only nontrivial loop in $A$ is $a \cdot e \cdot i$. i.e. along
    the diagnoal connecting $a$ to its antipodal vertex. Thus
    $\FundGroup(A) = \angleb{a\cdot e \cdot i} = \Z$. $B$ is a disk,
    having the trivial fundamental group. $C$, their intersection, is an
    annulus, and the image of the circle via the inclusion into $X$ is
    $a \cdot e \cdot i \cdot a \cdot e \cdot i$. By van Kampen,
    $\FundGroup(X) = \FundGroup(A) * \FundGroup(B) / \text{Image}(\FundGroup(C) \to \FundGroup(A))  = \angleb{a\cdot e \cdot i} / \angleb{a\cdot e \cdot i \cdot a\cdot e \cdot i} \iso \Z_2$

2.  `(1.2. #3)`: $C = \R^3 - A$ is $\R^3$ without a finite number of
    points. It is obvious that this is path-connected. Using a finite
    number of non-intersecting surfaces we can partition this space so
    that each of point in $A$ is in a separate partition. Thus, $C$ can
    be deform retracted into the wedge sum of a set of hollow spheres by
    shrinking each of these partitioning surfaces into a point. These
    are path connecected and so, by Van Kampen we have,
    $\FundGroup(C) \iso {*_n}\FundGroup(S^2) / N$ where $N$ is the
    normal subgroup generated by identifying the identities, and
    $|A| = n$. But, since $\FundGroup(S^2) \iso \id$,
    $\FundGroup(C) \iso \id$ and by proposition 1.6, $C$ is simply
    connected.

3.  `(1.2. #9)`: Consider the CW complex of an $h-$genus surface. It
    consists of one $0-$cell, $2h$ $1-$cells, and one $2-$cell. Deleting
    an open disk allows it to retract to its 1-skeleton, forming a
    bouquet of $2h$ circles. The intersections of each pair and triple
    of circles are path connected. Thus, by Van Kampen's theorem, it is
    the free group with $2h$ generators. Its Abelianization (by taking
    its quotient with the group generated by the commutators) is the
    free Abelian group with $2h$ generators, an even number. Thus it not
    possible for it to retract to the circle because the circles
    fundamental group has just one generator.

    However, if we make the cut at $C'$, $M_g$ retracts to $M_{g-1}$
    with *two* holes:

    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    Resulting in a bouquet of $2g - 1$ circles. In the case of $g = 1$,
    the torus, this retracts onto $C'$

\pagebreak
4.  `(1.2. #16)`: Since this surface has a countable number of "holes",
    we label each "hole" with an integer. Chose the central hole and
    "positive" direction arbitarilay. Label the holes such that they are
    one less than or more than each of their neighbours.

    Let the space $X_n$ include paths around holes $n$ and $-n$ but not
    $n + 1$ and $-n-1$ as shown:

    $$\begin{aligned} \\\\ \\\\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    Each $X_n$ is a $2n$ genus surface with two holes, retracting to the
    union of $4n + 1$ and thus has its fundamental group as the free
    group on $4n + 1$ elements.

    Any path in $X$ must be a path in some $X_n$, and furthur for any
    $n$, there is a path in $X_n$ and not in $X_{n-1}$. Thus the fundamental group of $X$, the
    infinite union of these spaces would be the infinite union of the
    groups.

    From each $X_n$ and $X_{n+k}$ their intersection is $X_n$, and there
    is an inclusion $X_n \inclusion X_{n+k}$. Thus, every element of $X$ is in
    some $\FundGroup(X_n)$ and so generated by its generators, and all
    generators are free -- any finite set of generators must be in some
    $\FundGroup(X_n)$. Thus $X$ is a free group generated by countable
    infinite generators.

5.  `(1.2. #21)`: Intuitively, the join of two spaces $X$ and $Y$ can be
    thought of as the disjoint union of the two spaces with a line
    joining every point in $A$ to every point in $B$. Thus, for each
    loop in either surface, there will be a cone with apex in the other
    surface. Let $p$ be a look in $X * Y$. We can continuously deform
    this until it is in $(X \times \{y_0\} \times \{0\}) / R$ and then
    to $(\{x_0\} \times Y \times \{1\})$

    (incomplete)

