---
title: Math 525 - Homework 5
---

10\. 2-sheeted:
:   Since the covering spaces of $X = \tcircle\twedge\tcircle$ are 2-oriented graphs
    with two vertices. There are two three such graphs:
    
    $$\begin{aligned} \\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$
    
10\. 3-seeted:
:   Similarly, gor graphs with 3 vertices:

    $$\begin{aligned} \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$
    $$\begin{aligned} \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$

12.
:   Starting with the universal cover for $\tcircle \twedge \tcircle$,
    we identify the path $a^2, b^2$ and $(ab)^4$ with the trivial path.

    $$\begin{aligned}   \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$
    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$

    This space deform retracts onto the space shown on the left:

    $$\begin{aligned}   \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$
    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$

    and is homotopic to the one on the right. This is the bouquet of
    three circles, and by Van Kampen is the group generated by each of
    the loops. These generating loops are homotopic to the preimages of
    the subgroup generated by $\angleb{a^2, b^2, (ab)^4}$

14. Connected covering spaces of $X = \RP^2 \twedge \RP^2$

:   The universal cover for $X$ is an infinite chain of tangent spheres
    mapping alternate spheres to each of the component spheres of $X$.
    The projection map takes each point on the sphere to the
    corresponding point on each component. The inverse image of points
    on the $X$ are mapped to an infinite set of antipodal points on the
    spheres $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\ \\\end{aligned}$$

    The subgroups of $\FundGroup(X) = \Z_2 * \Z_2$ are generated by
    words of alternating letters.

    - If each generators begin and end
    with different letters, and all begin with the same letter, then the
    group is generated by $(ab)^n$ and are isomorphic to $\Z$.
    - generated by $(ab)^na$ (or $b(ab)^n$) and isomorphic to $\Z_2$,
    - or generated by $(ab)^na$ and $b(ab)^m$ and isomorphic to
    $\Z_2\times \Z_2$.

    In the first case, these subcovers are formed by identifying the
    $2n$th spheres, forming a circular chain of $2n$ spheres. In the
    second, by identiying a point in an `a`-sphere
    The second, by identifying the antipodal points of the $n+1$th
    sphere in the `a` (or `b`) direction from the basepoint. The third,
    by identifying the antipodal points of the $n+1$th sphere in the `a`
    and the $m + 1$th in the $b$ direction from the basepoint.

    $$\begin{aligned}   \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$
    $$\begin{aligned}\\ \\ \\ \\ \\ \end{aligned}$$

